# Class 9 Recap

Hello students,

Over the break I evaluated your Project 1 submissions and have posted the grades to Blackboard. Along with your grade, you will see a comment which associates your project with a random unique identifier (i.e. `project-number`). You can use this identifier to consult the corresponding row in the [results sheet](https://github.com/prof-rossetti/georgetown-opim-557-20-201710/blob/master/projects/savings-calculator/results/detailed-results.csv) for a detailed score break-down. If you have any questions about the scores or comments, please feel free to message me. Finally, any student whose project grade was less than 80% may re-submit before 11:59 on 12/5 for an opportunity to raise the project grade to an 80% (just make sure to send me a message to let me know I should be looking out for your resubmission).

In class we encountered an [issue](https://github.com/prof-rossetti/georgetown-opim-557-20-201710/issues/35) with the "Web Requests" exercise, which I have taken an action item to investigate and resolve. But we moved on to demonstrate how to successfully issue requests to the Alpha Vantage API as part of our walk-through of the more difficult [Project 2 checkpoints](https://github.com/prof-rossetti/georgetown-opim-557-20-201710/blob/master/projects/stock-trading-recommendation-system/checkpoints.md).

Finally, we ended class by asking and answering questions to ensure you have all the resources and clarification you need to finish the final project.

We will spend most of next class dedicated to independent project work. It might not be reasonable to expect me to provide each of you with individual support during class, but I will try my best and I hope you also work collaboratively to help each other.

See you then!

\- Professor Rossetti
