## Policies

### Code of Conduct

All members of the learning community should at all times abide by the policies set forth by the [Office of Student Conduct](https://studentconduct.georgetown.edu/).

### Academic Integrity

Students are expected to follow the university’s [Honor System](https://honorcouncil.georgetown.edu/system) and [Graduate School Academic Policies](https://grad.georgetown.edu/academics/policies) as well as those set forth here.

Although students are encouraged to work with each other to discuss and solve problems, submission of identical or nearly identical work may be seen as an academic integrity infraction. And although students are encouraged to leverage Internet resources, submission of work product generated by any other person may also constitute an infraction. Furthermore, if one student violates academic integrity policies by submitting the unattributed work product of another student, both students may be considered in violation and subject to penalties.

As a rule of thumb, it is each student’s responsibility to type and understand every line of code submitted for evaluation. In situations where lines of boilerplate code or shared code are included in a submission, it is the responsibility of the student to accompany this code with one or more lines of "comments" which include a source link (e.g. "adapted from source: https://stackoverflow.com/q/2454552/670433") or other manner of attribution (e.g. "Rafik Hariri (rafik123@georgetown.edu) helped me with this part."). Submissions comprised of significant portions of code obtained in this way, even if properly attributed, may still constitute an infraction.

Any questions about what constitutes an academic integrity infraction should be proactively directed to the professor; retroactive naivete is not acceptable. Violations of academic integrity may lead to consequences such as failure or dismissal.

### Attendance

All students are encouraged but not required to attend class in-person. If not able to attend class in-person, students are still encouraged to review Blackboard resources, stay apprised of the Schedule, and participate remotely via Slack, when applicable.

Any student who is absent from class may risk missing in-class assignments or exams. There will be no opportunities to make-up in-class assignments or exams due to absence, except with permission from the professor. To obtain permission for planned absences, a student must email the professor within the first week of class. The professor may grant make-up opportunities for unplanned absences only in the event of severe circumstances such as medical emergency or death, in which case the professor reserves the right to ask for documentation of such events.

### Learning Accommodations

Any student requiring learning accommodations, such as longer exam periods, must register and coordinate through the university's [Academic Resource Center](https://academicsupport.georgetown.edu/disability).

### Grades

The Dean's office has mandated the maximum mean grade in this course should be 3.5. If this threshold is not met at the end of the semester, the professor reserves the right to curve all grades upward. If this threshold is exceeded at the end of the semester, the professor reserves the right to curve all grades downwards or bump-down the lowest numerical "A" grades to "A-".

Further guidance from the Dean's office:

> What constitutes an A, A-, B+, etc. is determined by each individual faculty member. Unlike most undergraduate programs, there is not a standard scale of numeric to letter grades. For example, 94% and above doesn't necessarily equate to an A, 90-93% doesn't necessarily equate to an A-, etc. Generally faculty will look at the final numeric grades as a whole and look for natural breaks. In other words, hopefully you will see a cluster of students that are at the top (As), slightly lower (A-), etc.
>
> #### GPA Scale

> letter grade | GPA
>  --- | ---
>  A | 4.00
>  A- | 3.67
>  B+ | 3.33
>  B | 3.00
>  B- | 2.67
>  C | 2.00
>  F | 0.00
