# Project 1 - Retirement Savings Calculator

> Adapted from a deliverable created by Professor Dillon-Merrill.

You own and operate a financial planning business which helps customers plan for retirement.

Your objective is to build yourself a tool to automate the common calculations required to provide your clients with retirement savings advice.

Specifically, the system should accept a number of information inputs representing the client's savings goals, and should produce an information output representing the amount of money the client can expect to have saved upon reaching retirement age.

## Prerequisites

  + ["All the Controls" Exercise](/exercises/all-the-controls/exercise.md) (and all of its prerequisites)
  + Data Quality - [Validations](notes/visual-basic/datatypes.md)
  + Control Flow - [Loops](/notes/visual-basic/loops.md) and [Error-handling](/notes/visual-basic/error-handling.md)

## Learning Objectives

  + Design and build a tool to aid a decision-making process.
  + Use ActiveX Controls and VBA to capture and validate user inputs.
  + Use VBA to perform programmatic calculations to arrive at a final system output.







## Information Requirements

### Information Inputs

Your system should accept the following user inputs:

  + The client's current age.
  + The client's desired retirement age.
  + The client's current amount of savings (assume the client does not have any debt).
  + The amount of money the client plans to contribute to savings each year (assume contributions are made at the end of each year).
  + A projected annual grown rate for the client's savings. Assume interest will compound on an annual basis (at the end of each year), not on a monthly basis.

The table below provides a framework for you to translate these information inputs into variables.

info input | suggested variable name | variable datatype | example value
--- | ---  | ---  | ---  | ---  | ---
Current Age | `Age` | `Integer` | `30`
Desired Retirement Age | `RetirementAge` | `Integer` | `65`
Savings Balance | `SavingsBalance` | `Double` | `30000.00`
Annual Contribution | `AnnualContribution` | `Double` | `18000.00`
Annual Savings Growth Rate (Interest Rate) | `InterestRate` | `Double` | `0.05`

### Information Outputs

Your system should produce the following outputs:

  + The amount of savings projected at the client's specified retirement age (a modified version of the `SavingsBalance` variable).
  + The amount of savings which was contributed (a subset of the `SavingsBalance`).
  + The amount of savings which was generated by accrued interest (a subset of the `SavingsBalance`).

## Interface Requirements

Provide written instructions which explain how a person should use the tool.

Use cells and/or input boxes and/or ActiveX Controls to capture user inputs. You are encouraged to use ActiveX Controls because they can provide a better user experience and can ease the validation process. If using ActiveX Controls, use them only as appropriate.

Regardless of how you choose to capture user inputs, make sure the user sees only properly-formatted values. Rates should be formatted with a percent sign (`%`) and dollar amounts should be formatted as USD with a dollar sign (`$`) and two decimal places.

Use an ActiveX `CommandButton` that when clicked will read and validate the inputs, perform the calculations, and produce the outputs.

## Validation Requirements

Prevent the user from inputting invalid values (i.e. entering a value of the wrong data type, entering a value outside of a reasonable range of accepted values, etc.).

If a user enters an invalid input, exit from the program and display a friendly message describing what went wrong and how the user can fix the problem.























## Submission Instructions

Submit a single macro-enabled excel file to [Blackboard](https://campus.georgetown.edu/webapps/assignment/uploadAssignment?content_id=_4454661_1&course_id=_745457_1&assign_group_id=&mode=cpview). The file should be named **project-1-`NETID`.xlsm**, where `NETID` represents your own university-issued Net Id (e.g. **project-1-abc123.xlsm**).

## Evaluation Methodology

Full credit for a properly-named file containing a user-friendly interface which properly validates all user inputs and performs the proper calculations to produce the correct output value.

Else partial credit to highlight areas of improvement.
